2026-04-11
==========

I was able to get through the rest of the wrangling portion for BLS data. I used Google to search up basic pandas methods.

Now, it's time to push everything to the pgsql db using sqlalchemy. 

I do not have a lot of experience or training here. Again, I'm using Google for help, as my familiarity and training with sQLAlchemy is low. Sometimes, the Google examples are quite comprehensive, so I'm just translating what I find to apply it to my own situation.

In the end, this seemed to work. I was able to figure out from a few examples how to assemble an insertion sequence.

----

It's time to move on to the `O*NET` dataset.

We'll pull the data we desire from postgresql into a new notebook and begin the wrangling process.

I've set up the initial notebook file. The question now is, which of the `O*NET` datasets are most useful?

The goal, again, is to compare the amount of time it takes to become capable of working in a field, and compare that to the financial reward associated with working in that field.

There are many datasets in `O*NET` and I do not have time to go through all of them. I will scan through the website for no more than `10` minutes, and then I'm going to ask Claude AI for assistance in picking a dataset to wrangle.

I would like to avoid wrangling the wrong dataset, as my time is limited.

- the `education_training_experience` dataset looks promising. There doesn't seem to be much inside the datset itself, but the idea is correct.
- looking further, there is a dictionary that lists the categories for `education_training_experience`, and this is exactly what we are looking for. `Education, Training, and Experience Categories`

It seems that, in order to use this dataset properly, I would benefit from creating an additional table that stores the dictionaries for the entire `O*NET` db. Maybe, I should just download all the files and only import those that are important at this time.

---

I spent some time figuring out how to download the dictionary page. I want to make sure it's archived here with the project, so that I don't lose it when `O*NET` changes it.

I used Claude AI's help to figure out a wget command that would mirror a subset of the site locally.

```
wget --mirror --convert-links --page-requisites --no-parent -nd -P ./onet_snapshot -l 2 --domains onetcenter.org https://www.onetcenter.org/dictionary/30.2/mssql/
```
